README.md, before:

# Hint
- git clone https://github.com/google/docsy-example.git
- cd docsy-example
- git submodule update --init --recursive
- Copy `config.toml` and `netlify.toml`.
- copy all the files from `layouts` to `layouts`
- Create a new Github repository. see this.
- cd docsy-example, and git remote set-url origin https://github.com/youraccount/YourRepoJustCreated.git
- git remote -v
- git push -u origin master

# Docsy Example
[Docsy](https://github.com/google/docsy) is a Hugo theme for technical documentation sites, providing easy site navigation, structure, and more. This **Docsy Example Project** uses the Docsy theme, as well as providing a skeleton documentation structure for you to use. You can either copy this project and edit it with your own content, or use the theme in your projects like any other [Hugo theme](https://gohugo.io/themes/installing-and-using-themes/).

The theme is included in this project as a Git submodule:

```bash
▶ git submodule
 a053131a4ebf6a59e4e8834a42368e248d98c01d themes/docsy (heads/master)
```

This Docsy Example Project is hosted at [https://example.docsy.dev/](https://example.docsy.dev/).

You can find detailed theme instructions in the Docsy user guide: https://docsy.dev/docs/

This is not an officially supported Google product. This project is currently maintained.

## Using the Docsy Example Project as a template

A simple way to get started is to use this project as a template, which gives you a site project that is set up and ready to use. To do this: 

1. Click **Use this template**.

2. Select a name for your new project and click **Create repository from template**.

3. Make your own local working copy of your new repo using git clone, replacing https://github.com/my/example.git with your repo’s web URL:

```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules --depth 1 https://github.com/my/example.git
```

You can now edit your own versions of the site’s source files.

If you want to do SCSS edits and want to publish these, you need to install `PostCSS`

```bash
npm install
```

## Running the website locally

Building and running the site locally requires a recent `extended` version of [Hugo](https://gohugo.io).
You can find out more about how to install Hugo for your environment in our
[Getting started](https://www.docsy.dev/docs/getting-started/#prerequisites-and-installation) guide.

Once you've made your working copy of the site repo, from the repo root folder, run:

```
hugo server
```

## Running a container locally

You can run docsy-example inside a [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/)
container, the container runs with a volume bound to the `docsy-example`
folder. This approach doesn't require you to install any dependencies other
than [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) on
Windows and Mac, and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)
on Linux.

1. Build the docker image 

   ```bash
   docker-compose build
   ```

1. Run the built image

   ```bash
   docker-compose up
   ```

   > NOTE: You can run both commands at once with `docker-compose up --build`.

1. Verify that the service is working. 

   Open your web browser and type `http://localhost:1313` in your navigation bar,
   This opens a local instance of the docsy-example homepage. You can now make
   changes to the docsy example and those changes will immediately show up in your
   browser after you save.

### Cleanup

To stop Docker Compose, on your terminal window, press **Ctrl + C**. 

To remove the produced images run:

```console
docker-compose rm
```
For more information see the [Docker Compose
documentation](https://docs.docker.com/compose/gettingstarted/).

## Troubleshooting

As you run the website locally, you may run into the following error:

```
➜ hugo server

INFO 2021/01/21 21:07:55 Using config file: 
Building sites … INFO 2021/01/21 21:07:55 syncing static files to /
Built in 288 ms
Error: Error building site: TOCSS: failed to transform "scss/main.scss" (text/x-scss): resource "scss/scss/main.scss_9fadf33d895a46083cdd64396b57ef68" not found in file cache
```

This error occurs if you have not installed the extended version of Hugo.
See our [user guide](https://www.docsy.dev/docs/getting-started/) for instructions on how to install Hugo.

Commit message:

change hugo-build version and add en.toml

README.md, after:

# Hint
- `git clone https://github.com/google/docsy-example.git`
- `cd docsy-example`
- `git submodule update --init --recursive`
- Copy `config.toml` and `netlify.toml`.
- Copy all the files from `layouts` to `layouts`.
- Create a new Github repository.
- `cd docsy-example`, and `git remote set-url origin https://github.com/youraccount/YourRepoJustCreated.git`
- `git remote -v`
- `git push -u origin master`

## Version control
To avoid the 100MB limit of the trackable files, I've created another repo ("TheNotebook") for version control of the content of my note (mostly pure text) under `content/en`, with `about` and `my-project` excluded. 
Therefore, I should
- Add `content/en/.git` and `content/en/.gitignore` to `.gitignore`
- Do version control in the repo of "TheNotebook", and just simply stage all changes, commit, and push in the repo for the site.

# Docsy Example
[Docsy](https://github.com/google/docsy) is a Hugo theme for technical documentation sites, providing easy site navigation, structure, and more. This **Docsy Example Project** uses the Docsy theme, as well as providing a skeleton documentation structure for you to use. You can either copy this project and edit it with your own content, or use the theme in your projects like any other [Hugo theme](https://gohugo.io/themes/installing-and-using-themes/).

The theme is included in this project as a Git submodule:

```bash
▶ git submodule
 a053131a4ebf6a59e4e8834a42368e248d98c01d themes/docsy (heads/master)
```

This Docsy Example Project is hosted at [https://example.docsy.dev/](https://example.docsy.dev/).

You can find detailed theme instructions in the Docsy user guide: https://docsy.dev/docs/

This is not an officially supported Google product. This project is currently maintained.

## Using the Docsy Example Project as a template

A simple way to get started is to use this project as a template, which gives you a site project that is set up and ready to use. To do this: 

1. Click **Use this template**.

2. Select a name for your new project and click **Create repository from template**.

3. Make your own local working copy of your new repo using git clone, replacing https://github.com/my/example.git with your repo’s web URL:

```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules --depth 1 https://github.com/my/example.git
```

You can now edit your own versions of the site’s source files.

If you want to do SCSS edits and want to publish these, you need to install `PostCSS`

```bash
npm install
```

## Running the website locally

Building and running the site locally requires a recent `extended` version of [Hugo](https://gohugo.io).
You can find out more about how to install Hugo for your environment in our
[Getting started](https://www.docsy.dev/docs/getting-started/#prerequisites-and-installation) guide.

Once you've made your working copy of the site repo, from the repo root folder, run:

```
hugo server
```

## Running a container locally

You can run docsy-example inside a [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/)
container, the container runs with a volume bound to the `docsy-example`
folder. This approach doesn't require you to install any dependencies other
than [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) on
Windows and Mac, and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)
on Linux.

1. Build the docker image 

   ```bash
   docker-compose build
   ```

1. Run the built image

   ```bash
   docker-compose up
   ```

   > NOTE: You can run both commands at once with `docker-compose up --build`.

1. Verify that the service is working. 

   Open your web browser and type `http://localhost:1313` in your navigation bar,
   This opens a local instance of the docsy-example homepage. You can now make
   changes to the docsy example and those changes will immediately show up in your
   browser after you save.

### Cleanup

To stop Docker Compose, on your terminal window, press **Ctrl + C**. 

To remove the produced images run:

```console
docker-compose rm
```
For more information see the [Docker Compose
documentation](https://docs.docker.com/compose/gettingstarted/).

## Troubleshooting

As you run the website locally, you may run into the following error:

```
➜ hugo server

INFO 2021/01/21 21:07:55 Using config file: 
Building sites … INFO 2021/01/21 21:07:55 syncing static files to /
Built in 288 ms
Error: Error building site: TOCSS: failed to transform "scss/main.scss" (text/x-scss): resource "scss/scss/main.scss_9fadf33d895a46083cdd64396b57ef68" not found in file cache
```

This error occurs if you have not installed the extended version of Hugo.
See our [user guide](https://www.docsy.dev/docs/getting-started/) for instructions on how to install Hugo.
